1 Mr Sherlock Holmes
Mr Sherlock Holmes was sitting at the breakfast table.
I stood by the fire and picked up the stick which our
visitor had left behind him the night before. It had a
broad silver band with some words on it: “ To James
Mortimer, M RCS, from his friends at the C .C .H . 1884.”
“ Well, Watson, what do you think of it?”
Holmes was sitting with his back to me.
“ How did you know what I was doing? I believe you
have eyes in the back of your head.”
“ I have a silver coffee-pot in front of me,” said he. “ But
tell me, Watson, what do you think of our visitor’s
stick?”
“ I think,” said I, “ that M r Mortimer is an elderly
doctor, well liked by those who know him, since they
give him this mark of their friendship.”
“ Good,” said Holmes.
“ I also think that he lives in the country, and that he
goes out to see his patients on foot.”
“ Why so?”
“ Because this stick has been so knocked about. I can
hardly believe that a town doctor would carry it.”
“ Very good,” said Holmes. “And then there are the
letters C.C.H .”
“ I should think that the ‘ H ’ must stand for ‘hunt\
and that the stick has been given him by the members

MRCS, Member of the Royal College of Surgeons. This shows

that James Mortimer is a doctor
coffee-pot: see picture, page 6
elderly, old but not very old
hunt, country club for people who go hunting on horseback

5

5

10

15

20

25

of the C.C. Hunt whom he helped as a doctor.”
“ Really, Watson, you are doing very well. Now give
me the stick.”
He took the stick from my hands and looked at it for
5 a few minutes. Then he carried the stick to the window,
where he looked it over again. “ Interesting, though
elementary” he said.

elementary, very simple

6

“ Is there anything I have not seen?” I asked.
“ I am afraid, my dear Watson, that most of what you
said was wrong. But you are certainly right on some
points. The man is a country doctor, and he walks a
good deal.”
5
“ Then I was right.”
“ So far, yes.”
“ But was that all?”
“ No, no, my dear Watson. I think that a present to a
doctor would sooner come from a hospital than from a 10
hunt, and that the letters C.C.H. may well stand for
Charing Cross Hospital, here in London.”
“ You may be right.”
“And I think we can say a little more than that. When
would such a present be given? When Dr Mortimer left 15
the hospital, to be sure. Now, no important doctor
would leave that great hospital to go and work in the
country; so our man was probably very young, perhaps
only a student. He left five years ago - the year is on the
stick. So instead of your elderly doctor, we have a man 20
under thirty, friendly, and the owner of a dog a little
larger than a terrier”

spaniel

7

I laughed. “A dog a little larger than a terrier? ”
“ Well, if you look at the stick in this light, you will see
the marks of its teeth. That means that the dog usually
carries this stick in its mouth, and its mouth is too broad
for a terrier. Ah yes, indeed, the dog is a spaniel”
“ M y dear fellow, how can you be sure of that?”
“ Because I see the dog upon my doorstep, and now
I hear Dr Mortimer ringing the bell.”
“ Come in!”
As Dr Mortimer entered, his eyes fell on the stick in
Holmes’ s hand.
“ I am so very glad,” said he. “ I would not lose that
stick for all the world.”
“A present, I see,” said Holmes.
“ Yes, sir.”
“ From Charing Cross Hospital?”
“ From one or two friends there, when I married.”
“ Come, come, we were not so far wrong.”
Holmes asked our visitor to sit down.
“ I see from your finger that you make your own
cigarettes. Please light one if you wish to.”
The man drew out paper and tobacco, and with
quick fingers he made himself a cigarette.
“ Well,” said Holmes, “ now would you tell me clearly
the exact nature of the problem that has brought you to
London and Baker Street to ask my help?”

spaniel: see picture, page 7

2 The Hound of the Baskervilles

“ I have in my pocket a manuscript” said Dr Mortimer.
“ I saw that as you entered the room,” said Holmes.
“ It is an old manuscript.”
“ Early 18th century”
“ How can you say that, sir?”
5
“ I have been looking at the part of the manuscript
sticking out of your pocket all the time that you have
been talking. It would be a poor expert who could not
give the date of a manuscript within ten years or so. I
put that at 1730.”
10
“ The date is 1742,” said Dr Mortimer, and took it
out of his pocket. “ This paper was given to me by my
friend Sir Charles Baskerville, whose sudden, sad
death caused so much talk in Devonshire not long ago ”
I looked over his shoulder at the yellow paper. At the 15
top was written: Baskerville HaU, Dartmoor, 1742.
“ But I understand that you want to speak to me
about something more modern and practical. Why
have you brought along this old manuscript?”
“ The manuscript is short and has much to do with 20
the matter. If you do not mind, I will read it to you.”
Dr Mortimer read us this strange, old-world story:

hound, dog used for hunting
manuscript, paper written by hand, not printed
the 18th century, the hundred years from 1700 to 1799
poor (here), not good
Hall, large house belonging to a country gentleman

9

5

10

15

20

25

‘The story of the Hound of the Baskervilles has been
often told, but I had it from my father. He had it from
his father, and I write it down here for you, my sons,
believing that it happened in this way.
‘In the 1650s the Hall of Baskerville was owned by
Hugo of Baskerville, who was a wild and godless man.
This Hugo came to love the daughter of a farmer living
near the Hall. But the girl was afraid and would not
have him. So one night Hugo, with six of his evil
friends, rode down to the farm and carried away the
girl. When they had brought her to the Hall she was
placed in an upper room, while Hugo and all his friends
sat down to wild drinking. She could hear them singing
and shouting, and in her fear she did what the bravest
man would have been afraid of doing; she climbed out
of the window and down the wall, and then ran away
homewards across the moor.
‘ Some litde time later, Hugo went to see how she
was, and found the room empty.
‘Then he became as one that has a devil\ he sprang
upon the table downstairs so that bottles and plates
were sent flying before him. And he swore before all his
friends that he would give his body and soul to the Devil
if only he could catch the girl again.
‘ He ran out of the house and gave her handkerchief
to his hounds to smell. Then he let out his hounds,
sprang on his horse, and rode out after the girl.
‘A few minutes later, all thirteen of his friends took
horse and started off after Sir Hugo.

moor■area of wild open land without trees
swear, say with great seriousness

10

'After some minutes they passed a shepherd, and they
shouted to ask him if he had seen the hunt. The
shepherd answered that he had seen the girl with the
hounds running after her. "But I have seen more than
that,” said he. "For Hugo Baskerville rode past me 5
upon his black horse; and behind him there ran, silent­
ly, a hound of hell. God forbid that such a hound should
ever be at my heels.”
‘The men rode on, but soon their skins turned cold,
for Hugo’s black horse came wildly at them across the 10
moor and went past them without its rider. At last the
men came upon the hounds, all standing together,
frightened and staring ahead. Three men rode on­
wards, until they found the girl lying where she had
fallen, dead of fear; and near her lay the dead body of 15
Hugo of Baskerville. Yet it was not the sight of the
bodies which raised the hair upon the heads of these
daring men, but something else. Over Hugo was
standing a great black animal, shaped like a hound, yet

shepherd, man who looks after sheep
heU, the underworld, where the Devil lives

11

larger than any hound that man has ever seen; and it
was tearing out Hugo Baskerville’s throat. The men
screamed with fear and rode for dear life. One, it is
said, died that very night of what he had seen, and the j
5 others were broken men for the rest of their days.

throaty the front of the neck

‘ So remember, my sons, that many of the family have
been unhappy in their deaths, which have been sudden,
bloody, and strange. And I must tell you one thing:
never cross the moor during the hours of darkness/
When Dr Mortimer had finished reading, he looked up 5
and stared across at M r Sherlock Holmes.
“ Do you find it interesting?”
“ To a collector of old stories.”
Dr Mortimer took a newspaper out of his pocket.
“ Now, M r Holmes, let me give you something more 10
modern: The facts of the death of Sir Charles Basker­
ville, which took place at the beginning of June this
year.”
And Dr Mortimer began reading again:
‘The sudden death of Sir Charles Baskerville has 15
thrown a dark shadow over Devonshire. Though he had
lived at Baskerville Hall only for a short time, he had
won the respect of everybody. Sir Charles, as is well
known, made large sums of money in South Africa, and
returned to England. It is only two years since he came 20
to live at Baskerville Hall.
‘The facts of his death are not quite clear, but it
seems that his death was natural. Sir Charles had long
lived alone with his servants. They have told us that his
health had been poor for some time. Every night, 25
before going to bed, Sir Charles took a walk down the
Alky. On the 4th of June he had told his butler, Barry-

Alley, garden path with bushes on each side
butler, head servant

13

more, that he wanted to go to London the next day.
That night, as usual, he went out for his walk, smoking
his cigar as always. He never returned. At twelve
o’clock, Barrymore went to look for him. Sir Charles’s
5 footprints were easily seen. He had gone down the
Alley, and had stopped before a small gate opening to
the moor. After that, his footprints changed; Sir
Charles seems to have walked upon his toes. Barrymore
continued down the Alley, and at the far end of it he
10 found the body of Sir Charles. Nobody seems to have
hurt Sir Charles, but his face looked so terrible that Dr
Mortimer hardly knew him. The examination of his
dead body showed that Sir Charles had died of a heart
attack.
15
‘ Sir Charles’s heir is Sir Henry Baskerville, the son of
Sir Charles’s younger brother. The young man, when
last heard of, was in America, and is to be told of his
good fortune as soon as possible.’
Dr Mortimer folded the paper and put it in his pocket.
“ I must thank you for telling me this interesting
story,” said Sherlock Holmes.
“ Those are all the public facts, M r Holmes.”
“ Indeed? Then let me have the private ones.”
“ In doing so,” said Dr Mortimer, “ I am telling you
25 something I have not told anyone. There are very few
people living on the moor, and those who live near each
other often meet. So I often saw Sir Charles. He had
read the story I have just read to you. After that,
nothing could make him go out on the moor at night.
20

heir, person who will receive money, land, etc., when another

person dies

14

He was sure that some terrible fate overhung his family.
“ I remember one night when I came up to his door,
about three weeks before he died. I was standing in
front of him, when I saw him staring at something
behind me with an expression of the most terrible fear. 5
I turned, and had just the time to see something passing
the Alley which I took to be a large calf. He was so very
nervous that I stayed the evening with him. It was then
that he told me the story of the Hound of the Basker­
villes. I told him he should go to London for a holiday. 10
I knew that his heart was weak, and that the fear in
which he lived every day was dangerous for his health.

“ On the night of Sir Charles’s death, Barrymore
sent Perkins the driver to me. As I was sitting up late, I
was able to reach Baskerville Hall within an hour of the 15
death. I followed the footprints down the Alley and saw
the spot at the moor-gate where Sir Charles seemed to
have waited. I also noticed the change in the footprints.
I noted that there were no other footprints except Sir
Charles’s and Barrymore’s close to the body, which had 20
not been touched. But Barrymore said one thing that
was not true. He said that there were no other marks on

15

the ground round the body. He did not see any. But I
did - some litde distance off, but fresh and clear.”
“ Footprints?”
“ Footprints.”
5
“A man’s or a woman’s?”
Dr Mortimer looked strangely at us for a moment,
and his voice sank almost to a whisper as he answered:
“ M r Holmes, they were the footprints of an enormous
hound!”

enormous, very large

16

3 The Problem
Holmes leant forward, and his eyes shone, as they
always did when he was very interested.

“ You saw this?”
“As clearly as I see you.”
“ There are many sheep-dogs on the moor?”
“ Yes, but this was no sheep-dog.”
“ You say the animal was very large?”
“ It was enormous.”
“ But it had not touched the body?”
“ No. The marks were some distance from the body,
and no one gave them a thought.”
“ What sort of night was it?”
“ Wet and cold, but it was not actually raining.”
“ What is the Alley like?”
“ There are two lines of very thick hedges, which it is
impossible to get through.”

- The Hound of the Baskervilles

17

5

10

15

20

25

“ So that to reach the Alley one has to come either
from the house or else through the moor-gate?”
“ Yes.”
“ Was the moor-gate closed?”
“ Yes”
“And what marks did you see by the gate?”
“ None”
“ Good Heavens! Did no one look?”
“ Yes, I did, but I found nothing. Sir Charles had
stood there for five or ten minutes.”
“ How do you know that?”
“ Because the ash had twice dropped from his cigar.”
“ Good! And there was nothing else to be seen?”
“ I could find nothing else.”
“ If I had only been there. Why did you not call me
in at once?”
5
“ There are times when even the detective is
helpless.”
“ You mean that the thing is not natural - that it is
supernatural?”
“ I did not say so.”
“ No, but you think so.”
“ I have found that before Sir Charles’s death several
people had seen an animal on the moor which is like the
hound of the legend. And there is not a man who will
cross the moor at night.”
“And you are a doctor and you believe this creature;
to be supernatural?”
“ I do not know what to believe.”

ash, grey powder on the end of the burning cigar
legend, an old story, probably not true

18

“ But now, Dr Mortimer, tell me this. If you believe in
that old legend, why have you come to me?”
“ Because I want to ask you what I should do with Sir
Henry Baskerville, who arrives from Canada in
London, at Waterloo Station, , in ... one hour and a
quarter.”
“ He is the heir?”
“ Yes. Henry is the son of Sir Charles’s younger
brother, who died early. There was a third, youngest
brother, Rodger, who made trouble in England, fled to
South America, and died there without marrying. So
Henry is the last of the Baskervilles. Now, M r Holmes,
what should I do with him?”
“ Why should he not go to the home of his fathers?”
“ Every Baskerville who goes to Dartmoor meets
with an evil fate. Yet someone should live at the Hall.”
Holmes sat thinking for some time.
“ I think you should go straight to Waterloo to meet
Sir Henry.”
“And then?”
“And then you will say nothing to him until I have
made up my mind about the matter.”
“ How long will it take you to make up your mind?”
“ Twenty-four hours. Will you please come here at
ten o’clock tomorrow and bring Sir Henry with you?”
“ I will do so, M r Holmes.”
“ Good morning.”
*

*

*

“ Going out, Watson?”
“ Yes, if I cannot help you?”

flee, run away

19

5

10

15

20

25

“ When you go, will you please ask Bradley’s to send
up a pound of the strongest tobacco?”
*

5

10

15

20

*

*

Not until the evening did I return, for I knew that it was
necessary for my friend to be alone during those hours
of hard thinking. When I opened the door, I thought
that a fire had broken out. But through the smoke I saw
Holmes sitting in his chair with his pipe in his mouth.
“ You have been at your club all day, I see,” said
Holmes, as I entered.
“ M y dear Holmes!”
“ When a man goes out on a rainy day and returns
with a dry hat, where else can he have been?”
“ Have you thought of the matter, Holmes?”
“ Yes, I have thought a good deal during the day. I
have carefully studied this large map of Dartmoor, and
I think I can find my way about there quite easily now.
There you see Baskerville Hall in the middle, and the
Alley It must be a wild place. The firift question is if
there has been a crime at all; the second is, what is the
crime and how was it done?”

20

“ That change in the footprints, what do you think of
that?”
“ He was running, Watson, running for his life, until
his heart burst and he fell dead upon his face.”
“ Running from what? ”
5
“ There lies our problem. Why did he run away from
the house and not towards it?”
“And why did he stop at the moor-gate?”
“ He was waiting for somebody. The man was elderly
and in poor health, and the weather was cold and damp. 10
Is it natural that he should stand for five or ten minutes
if he was not waiting for somebody?” It was the night
before he was going to London. The thing takes shape,
Watson. Might I ask you to hand me my violin? We will
think no more of the matter until we see Dr Mortimer 15
and Sir Henry Baskerville tomorrow.”

violin: see picture, page 6

21

4 Sir Henry Baskerville

5

10

15

20

25

30

Next morning after breakfast, Holmes sat waiting for
his visitors. They arrived at ten o’clock sharp and were
shown in. Sir Henry was a small dark-eyed man about
thirty years old, very strongly built, and wearing a
reddish-brown suit.
“ This is Sir Henry Baskerville,” said Dr Mortimer.
“ M y friend brought me here,” said he, “ but strange­
ly enough, M r Sherlock Holmes, I had already decided
to come and ask you about a small problem.”
“ Please take a seat, Sir Henry,” said Holmes. “ Do I
understand you to say that something unusual has
happened to you since you arrived in London?”
“ Nothing very important, M r Holmes. It was this
letter, which reached me this morning.”
He laid a letter on the table, and we ,all bent over it.
The address - Sir Henry Baskerville, Northumberland
Hotel, London - was written in a rough hand. The
postmark was Charing Cross, and the date of posting
that of the evening before.
“ Who knew you were going to the Northumberland
Hotel?” asked Holmes.
“ No one could have known.”
“ But Dr Mortimer was already stopping there?”
“ No, I was staying with a friend,” said the doctor^
“ Hm, someone seems to be very interested in your1
movements.”
We now read the letter. It ran: ‘As you hold dear youjf
life keep away from the moor.’ The words had been cut
out of a newspaper and stuck on to the letter. Only the
word ‘ moor’ was written in ink.

22

“ Now, perhaps,” said Sir Henry, “ you will tell me the
m e an in g of that.”

“ Have

you yesterday’s

Times, Watson?”

said

Holmes.

“ It is here in the corner.”
“ Please give it to me.” He looked through the
newspaper, then read us some lines from one of its
articles ... “ What do you think of that, Watson?”
“ What has that got to do with the matter?” said Sir
Henry.
“ You see, the words ‘You’, ‘your’, ‘life’, ‘hold dear’,
‘keep away’, ‘from the’, have all been cut out of this
article.”
“ You are quite right! Well, I must say, that is smart,”
cried Sir Henry.
“ But how did you do it, M r Holmes?” asked Dr
Mortimer, looking at my friend. “ How did you know? ”
“ Well, this is my special hobby. I observe the
differences of print between different newspapers.
Elementary, really, to the expert in crime.”
“ But why is the word ‘moor’ written in ink?”
“ Because he could not find it in print. Now, I also
think that the letter was written in a hotel.”
“ How in the world can you say that?”
“ You will see that both the pen and ink have been of
poor quality. In a private house you will not often find
that. But you know hotel pens and hotel ink. I am sure
that if we searched the waste-paper baskets of the hotels
round Charing Cross, we should find the person who
wrote this letter.”
mk, black liquid used for writing
The Times, London daily newspaper, started in 1785

5

10

15

20

25

30

Holmes took up the letter and examined it closely.
“ Oh! W hat’s this?” he asked.
“ What?”
“ Nothing,” said he, throwing it down. “ It is
ordinary paper. We need consider it no more.”
“ I seem to have walked right into the middle of a
cheap detective story,” said Sir Henry.
“ You have nothing else to report?” asked Holmes.
Sir Henry smiled. “ I have lost one of my boots, at the
hotel. I put them both outside my door last night, and
in the morning there was only one. The worst of it is
that they are new boots.”
“ It seems a strange thing to steal,” said Holmes.
“ But now, gendemen,” said Sir Henry, “ you seem to
know much more about my own affairs than I do. It is
time you told me something more about them.”
Dr Mortimer took his papers from his pocket, and
read to all of us what he had read to Holmes and me the
morning before. Sir Henry listened closely.
“And now, there is this strange letter,” he said.
“ \es. Someone seems to know more than we do
about what g6es on upon the moor,” said Dr Mortimer.
“ There is one question we must decide,” said
Holmes. “ Is it wise for you to go to Baskerville Hall, Sir
Henry?”
“ Why should I not go?”
“ There seems to be danger.”
“ There is no devil in hell, M r Holmes, and there is
no man upon earth, who can stop me from going to the
home of my own people, and that is my final answer.
But now it is half past eleven, and I am going back to my
hotel. Will you and your friend, Dr Watson, come
round and lunch with us at two? Then I can tell you

24

more clearly what I think of this business.”
“ Can you come at that time, Watson?”
“ With pleasure ”
“ Then you may expect us. Shall I call a cabVy
“ No, thank you, I would rather walk. Good
morning.”
*

*

5

*

We heard the steps of our visitors go down the stairs,
then the front door shut loudly.
“ \bur hat and boots, Watson, quick!”
We hurried down the stairs and into the street. We
could see Dr Mortimer and Sir Henry walking some
distance in front of us.
“ Shall I run and stop them?”
“ No, not for the world, my dear Watson.”
We followed them into Oxford Street and then down
Regent Street. Once, our friends stopped and looked
into a shop window, and we did the same. A moment
passed. “Ah a!” cried Holmes suddenly, looking
pleased. Turning my head, I saw a cab with a man in it,
which had stopped on the other side of the street and
now started again.
“ There is our man, Watson. Come along. We will
have a good look at him if we can do no more.”
At that moment, I saw a black beard and a pair of
sharp eyes turned on us through the side window of the
cab, and then the cab flew madly away down the street.
Holmes looked round for another, but no empty cab
was to be seen.
“ There now. Was ever such bad luck, Watson?”
“ Who was the man?”
cab: see picture, page 26

25

10

15

20

25

“ I have no idea.”
“ He had a black beard.”
“ It may be false.”
“ What a pity we did not get the number of the cab.”
5
“ M y dear Watson, even if we let him get away, you
surely do not believe that I could miss the number?
2704 is our man. But that is no use to us for the
moment.”
“ I can’t see that you could have done more.”

26

“ I should have turned and walked the other way,
then hired a cab and followed the man; or better still,
have driven to the Northumberland Hotel and waited
there. Now we have lost our man.”
Holmes turned into a messenger office, where the owner
came to meet us with great warmth.
uAh, Wilson, I see you have not forgotten the little
case in which I had the good fortune to help you.”
“ No, sir, I have not. You saved my good name, and
perhaps my life.”
“ M y dear fellow, that’s really saying too much. I
remember that you had among your boys one called
Cartwright.”
“ Yes, sir, he is still with us.”
“ Could you call him in? Thank you.”
A boy of fourteen with a bright, willing face came in.
“ Now, Cartwright, here are the names of twentythree hotels near Charing Cross. Do you see?”
“ Yes, sir.”
“ 'You will go to each of them and ask to see the waste
paper of yesterday. You will say that a telegram has
been sent to the wrong hotel. But what you are really
looking for is a page of The Times, with some holes cut in
it. It is this page. You can keep it. Here are twenty-three
shillings to give to the porters. Send me a telegram with
a report, before evening, to Baker Street. And now,
Watson, let us go and find out who cabman No. 2704 is,
and then drop into a museum to fill in the time until two
o’clock.”

messenger office, shop in which boys may be hired or paid to carry
letters, telegrams or parcels all over London

27

5

10

15

20

25

5 Three Broken Threads
We spent two hours at the museum and spoke of
nothing but art. Then we went to the Northumberland
Hotel.
“ Sir Henry Baskerville is upstairs expecting you,”
5 said the clerk. “ He asked me to show you up at once.”
“ Would you mind showing me your hotel register?”
asked Holmes.
The book showed that two names had been added
after that of Baskerville. They were, however, both well
10 known to the clerk.
“ We know now,” said Holmes, “ that the people who
are so interested in our friend do not live in his hotel.”
As we came round the top of the stairs we ran into Sir
Henry himself. His face was red with anger, and he
15 held an old and dusty boot in one of his hands.
“ Still looking for your boot?”
“ Yes, sir, and mean to find it.”
“ But you said it was yourtnew brown boot.”
“ So it was, sir. And now it is my old black one.”
20
“ What? You do not mean to say . . . ? ”
“ 'Yes. Last night they took one of my brown ones, and
today they have taken one of the black ones.”
A German waiter appeared. “ It shall be found, sir I promise you that if you can wait it will be found.”
25
Holmes turned to us. “ We now hold several threads
in our hands,” he said, “ and one of them should guide
us to the truth.”
*

*

*

hotel register, book with the names of the hotel guests

28

We had a pleasant lunch. In the private sitting-room
afterwards, Holmes asked Baskerville what he was
going to do.
“ Go to Baskerville Hall.”
“And when?”
5
“At the end of the week.”
“ I think that is very wise,” said Holmes. “ You are
being followed in London, and among the millions of
this great city it is difficult to find out who these people
are and what they mean to do. You did not know, Dr 10

29

Mortimer, that you were followed this morning when
you left my house?”
“ Followed!” cried Dr Mortimer. “ By whom?”
“ That is what I can’t tell you. Have any of your
5 neighbours on Dartmoor a black beard?”
“ No - or, let me see - why, yes, Barrymore, Sir
Charles’s butler, is a man with a full, black beard.”
“ Ha! Where is Barrymore?”
“ He is at the Hall.”
10
“ We had better be sure he is really there. Give me a
telegraph form. ‘ Is all ready for Sir Henry?’ Address to
Barrymore, Baskerville Hall. Which is the nearest
telegraph office? Grimpen? Very good, we will send j
a second telegram to the postmaster, Grimpen:
15 ‘Telegram to M r Barrymore to be delivered into his
own hand.’ Now we should know before evening if
Barrymore is at his postjji Devonshire or not.”
“ Did Barrymore receive anything by Sir Charles’s
will? ”
20
“ Yes, he and his wife got five hundred pounds each.”
“ How much money did Sir Charles have?”
“ Seven hundred and forty thousand pounds.”
“ I had no idea that Sir Charles was so enormously
rich. If anything happened to our young friend here,
25 who would have the Hall and the money?”
“ Since Rodger Baskerville, Sir Charles’s second
brother, died in South America, unmarried as far as we
know, the Hall and the money would go to a cousin of
Sir Henry’s, James Desmond, a kind elderly man who
30 has already refused to take any money from Sir
Charles.”
will, document showing a person’s heirs

30

1

“ Well, Sir Henry, I think you had better go down to
Devonshire, but you must not go alone.”
“ Dr Mortimer is going with me.”
“ But Dr Mortimer has his work to do, and his house
is many miles from yours. You must take with you
someone who will always be at your side.”
“ Whom would you recommend, then?”
Holmes laid his hand upon my arm.
“ If my friend will do it, there is no man who is better
worth having at your side in time of trouble.”
“ Well now, that is kind of you, Dr Watson,” said Sir
Henry. “ If you will come, I’ll never forget it.”
“ I will come with pleasure,” said I.
We had risen to leave when Baskerville gave a glad
cry and pulled out a brown boot from under the bed.
“ Here is my boot,” said he.
“ But that is very strange,” said Dr Mortimer. “ I
searched this room carefully before lunch.”
“And so did I,” said Baskerville. “ The waiter must
have put the boot there while we were lunching.”
The German was sent for, but said that he knew
nothing of the matter.
Holmes sat in silence in the cab as we drove to Baker
Street, and I knew from his look that, like myself, he
was thinking. All afternoon and late into the evening
he sat lost in tobacco and thought.
Just before dinner two telegrams were handed in.
The first ran:
‘ Have just heard that Barrymore is at the Hall.
Baskerville.’

5

10

15

20

25

30

31

The second:
‘Visited 23 hotels, but found no cut page of Times.
Cartwright/
“ There go two of my threads, Watson.”
5
“ We still have that cabman.”
“ \fes, I have telegraphed to get his name and
address.”
At that moment the bell rang, and a rough-looking
fellow entered who was clearly the cabman himself.
10
“ They told me that a gentleman at this address was
asking for 2704,” said he. “ I ’ve driven this cab for seven
years. What do you have against me?”
“ I have nothing against you, my good man,” said
Holmes. “ But I have half a sovereign for you if you will
15 give me a clear answer to my questions.”
“ Well, I ’ve had a good day and no mistake,” said the
cabman. “ What was it you wanted to ask me, sir?”
“ First of all your name and address.”
“John Clayton, 3 , Turpey Street.”
20
Sherlock Holmes made a note of it.
“ Now, Clayton, tell me about your passenger who
came and watched tliis house at ten o’clock this
morning.”
The cabman looked surprised.
25
“ Why, there is no good in telling you things you
know already,” said he. “ The gendeman told me he was
a detective, and that I was to say nothing to anyone.”
“ M y good fellow, you may find yourself in a rather
bad position if you try to hide anything from me. Did
30 he say anything more?”

sovereign, £ 1 (one pound)

32

“ He said his name.”
“ What was his name?”
“ His name,” said the cabman, “ was M r Sherlock
Holmes ”

Never have I seen my friend so surprised. Then he
burst into a laugh.
“ Nothing more you can remember?”
“ He was about forty years old and a little shorter
than you, sir. He was well-dressed, had a black beard
and a pale face. That’s all I can tell you, sir.”
“ Well, then, here is your half sovereign. Good
night!”
“ Good night, sir, and thank you!”
The cabman was happy when he left, and Holmes
turned to me. “ There went our third thread, and we are
back where we began. I tell you, Watson, this time we
are fighting a very clever man. I can only wish you
better luck in Devonshire than I have had here in
London. But I do not like sending you.”
“ Why is that?”
“ The more I see of this business the less I like it. Yes,
my dear fellow, you laugh, but I shall be very glad to
have you safely back in Baker Street again.”

^ The Hound of the Baskervilles

33

6 Baskerville Hall
Sir Henry Baskerville and Dr Mortimer were ready
when the day came, and we started for Devonshire. Mr
Sherlock Holmes drove with me to the station.
“ I wish you to report what you see.”
5
“ What sort of things?”
“Anything of interest for the case, but particularly
what you can learn about Baskerville’ s neighbours.”
“ Would it not be well to get rid of this Barrymore and
his wife?”
10
“ No. If they don’t have anything to do with the
matter, it would be wrong; and if they do, we should lose
all chances of proving it. Then there is a driver at the
Hall, and there sire two moorland farmers; there is Dr
Mortimer, and his wife; there is Stapleton, the naturalist,
15 and there is his sister, who is said to be a beautiful
young lady. There is M r Frankland of Lafter Hall, and
there are one or two other neighbours. These are the
people to watch.”
“ I will do my best.”
20
“ You have a revolver?”
“ Yes. I thought it as well to take it.”
“ Keep it near you night and day.”
Our friends were waiting for us on the platform.
“ No, we have no news of any kind,” said Dr
25 Mortimer, in answer to my friend’s question. “ I can
swear that we have not been followed during the last two
days.”
“ You have always kept together, I suppose?”
naturalist, person studying animals or plants

34

“ Except yesterday afternoon when I went to a
museum.”
“And I went to Hyde Park,” said Sir Henry. “ But we
had no trouble of any kind.”
“ That was not wise,” said Holmes, shaking his head
and looking very grave. “ I ask you, Sir Henry, not to go
about alone. Did you get your other boot?”
“ No, that one is gone for ever.”
“ That is very interesting. Good-bye. And remem­
ber, Sir Henry, never to go out on the moor in the
dark.”
As the train left the station, I looked back at the plat­
form far behind and saw the tall figure of Holmes
standing there looking after us.
The journey was a fast and pleasant one, and I spent
the time talking to my friends and playing with Dr
Mortimer’ s spaniel. After a few hours, we saw the
reddish-brown earth, stone houses and green grass of
Devon. Baskerville stared out of the window, and cried
aloud with delight as he saw his home landscape.
“ I ’ve travelled the world since I left, but I have never
seen a more beautiful place,” said Sir Henry.
“ I never saw a Devonshire man who did not like his
county better than any other place,” I remarked.
The train stopped at a small station, and we all got
out. Outside, a carriage with two horses was waiting.
We were in a sweet, simple country place, but I was
surprised to see two soldiers leaning on their rifles and
watching us carefully as we passed.
*

*

5

10

15

20

25

*

The moor lay before us. On the top of a hill we saw a 30
soldier on horseback with his rifle over his arm.

35

“ Look! What is this, Perkins?” asked Dr Mortimer.
Our driver half turned in his seat.
“ There’s a convict escaped from Princetown Prison,
sir, and they are watching every road and station. This
5 is a very dangerous man.”
“ Who is he then?”
“ It is Selden, the Notting Hill murderer.”
I remembered the case well. It was one in which
Holmes had taken a great interest.
10
Our carriage had come to the top of the hill, and in
front of us we saw the empty moor with its strange tors.
A cold wind swept down from the moor. Even Basker­
ville became silent and pulled his coat more closely
around him. Now and then we passed a small house
15 with walls and roof made of stone.
Suddenly we saw two high narrow towers rising over
the trees. Perkins the driver pointed.
“ Baskerville Hall,” said he.
Sir Henry stared at the house with shining eyes. A
20 few minutes later, we drove up to the front door.
A tall man stepped from the shadows to meet us. A
woman came out to help him to hand down our bags.
“ You don’ t mind my driving straight home, Sir
Henry?” said Dr Mortimer. “ M y wife is expecting
25 me.”
“ Surely you will stay and have some dinner?”
“ No, I must go. Send for me if I can help you.”
We went into the hall, and the door closed with a
heavy sound behind us. Barrymore had returned from
30 taking our bags to our rooms, and stood in front of us.
convict, a criminal held in prison
tor, a stony hilltop, typical of Dartmoor

36

He was tall and good-looking, with a black beard and a
pale face.
“ Would you like dinner to be served at once, sir?”
“ Is it ready?”
“ In a very few minutes. You will find hot water in 5
your rooms. M y wife and I will be happy to stay until
you have made new arrangements; but you will under­
stand that we wish to leave. Sir Charles’s death gave us
a shock. I fear we shall never again feel at home at
Baskerville Hall. And now, sir, perhaps I had better 10
show you to your rooms.”
The bedrooms opened off a long corridor. M y room
was almost next door to Baskerville’s.
Later, as the two of us took our dinner, faces of earlier
Baskervilles stared down at us from portraits on the dark 15
walls. I was glad when the meal was over.

37

Before I went to bed, I looked out of the window. The
trees were moving in a rising wind. In the cold light of
the half moon, I could see the long, wide, empty moor
behind a broken line of rocks. I shut the window and
5 went to bed, but sleep would not come.
And then suddenly, in the middle of the night, a
sound came to my ears, loud and clear. What I heard
was a woman crying. I sat up in bed and listened. For
half an hour I waited, but no other sound came except
10 the striking of the clock.

38

7 The Stapletons
The next morning the sun was shining, and the place
looked much brighter. We sat down to breakfast, with
the sunshine pouring in through the windows.
“ Did you you hear a woman crying last night?” I
asked Sir Henry.
“ I did, when I was half asleep. I waited for some
time, but there was no more of it, so I thought it was a
dream,” answered Sir Henry.
“ I heard it clearly, and I am sure it was a woman
crying.”
“ We must ask about this at once.”
He rang the bell and asked Barrymore if he could
explain the sound. Barrymore seemed to turn paler.
“ There are only two women in the house. One is a
servant who sleeps at the other end of the house. The
other is my wife, and you may be sure that the sound
did not come from her.”
This was not true, for after breakfast I met Mrs
Barrymore in the long corridor, and her eyes were red.
It was she, then, who cried in the night, and if she did
so her husband must know it. Yet he had told us that it
was not so. Why? And why did she cry? Was it Barry­
more whom we had seen in the cab in London?
The first thing to do was to see the Grimpen post­
master and find out if the telegram had really been
given into Barrymore’s own hands.
Sir Henry had many papers to go through after
breakfast, so I set out alone. It was an hour’s pleasant
walk along the edge of the moor.
The postmaster remembered the telegram well.

39

5

10

15

20

25

30

“ Who delivered the telegram?” I asked
“ M y boy here. James, you delivered that telegram to
M r Barrymore at the Hall last week, didn’t you?”
“ Yes, Father, I delivered it.”
5
“ Into his own hands?” I asked.
“ Well, he was up in the loft at the time, so I could not
put it into his own hands, but I gave it to Mrs Barry­
more, and she promised to deliver it at once.”
“ Did you see M r Barrymore?” I asked.
10
“ No, sir, I tell you he was in the loft.”
“ How do you know he was in the loft if you did not
see him?”
“ Well, surely his own wife ought to know where he
is,” said the postmaster almost angrily.
15
It was useless to ask any more questions. So we still
did not know if Barrymore had been at the Hall or in
London. Was he, then, the man in the cab? Was it he
who had cut out the words from The Times?
I had left the post office, and had gone some way
20 when I heard running feet behind me, and a man’s
voice called my name.
“ 'You will excuse me, Dr Watson,” said he. “ \bu may
have heard my name from our friend, Mortimer. I am
Stapleton, and I live at Merripit House.”
25
“ But how did you know me?”
“ I have been visiting Mortimer, and he pointed you
out from the window as you passed. I hope Sir Henry
is well?”
“ He is very well, thank you.”
30
“ We were all afraid that after the sad death of Sir

lofty room at the top of a house

40

Charles he would not come and live here. I need not tell
you that it means a very great deal to the people here if
he comes. O f course you know the legend of the Hound
of the Baskervilles?,,
“ Yes.”
“ Sir Charles believed in the legend, and I think that
led to his death.”
“ But how?” I asked.
“ He was so nervous and frightened that any dog that

41

5

appeared might have killed him. I do think that some­
thing he saw in the alley that last night killed him. His
heart was weak.”
“ How do you know that?”
5
“ M y friend Mortimer told me.”
“ You think, then, that some dog ran after Sir
Charles, and that he died of fright as a result?”
“ Yes. What does M r Sherlock Holmes think?”
I was very surprised, but he looked calmly at me.
10
“ We know you very well, Dr Watson. We have read
your stories about your famous detective. And if you
are here, Sherlock Holmes must be interested in the
matter. M ay I ask you if he will pay us a visit himself?”
“ He cannot leave town just now.”
15
“ What a pity! He might throw some light on that
which is so dark to us.”
We had come to a place where a path turned off from
the road and led across the moor.
“A short walk from here brings us to Merripit
20 House,” said he. “ Perhaps you will spare an hour, to
come and meet my sister?”
M y first thought was that I should be at Sir Henry’s
side; but then I remembered all his papers, with which
I could not possibly help him. I accepted Stapleton’s
25 invitation, and we turned down the path.
“ It is a wonderful place, the moor,” said he. “ I have
only been here two years, but I should think that there
are few men who know the place better than I.”
“ Is Dartmoor so hard to know?”
30
“ Very hard! You see, for example, that great plain to
the north?”
town (here, as often in the south of England), London

42

“ It would be a nice place for a ride on horseback.”
“ You would think so, and the thought has cost people
their lives before now. Look at those green spots; that is
the great Grimpen Mire. A false step there means death.
Only yesterday I saw one of the ponies wander into the
mire. He never came out. It drew him down. Even in
dry seasons it is dangerous to cross it, but after these
autumn rains it is an awful place. Yet I can find my way
to the middle of it and return alive. Look, there is
another of those ponies.”
Something brown was rolling and fighting among
the grass. Then a head shot up, and a dreadful cry was
heard over the moor.
“ He is gone,” said Stapleton. “ The mire has him. It
is a bad place, the great Grimpen Mire.”
“And you say you can go to the middle of it?”
“ Yes, there are one or two paths which a quick­
footed man can take. I have found them out.”
“ But why go into such a terrible place?”
“ Well, you see those hills. That is where the rare
plants and butterflies are.”

mire, very wet ground, dangerous to walk on
rare, unusual and hard to find

43

5

10

15

20

“ I shall try and go there some day.”
“ For God’s sake, don’t do that. You would never
come back alive.”
“ Listen!” I cried. “ What is that?”
5
A long, low, sad cry swept over the moor. It filled the
whole air, and yet it was not possible to say where the
sound came from. Stapleton looked at me.
“ Strange place, the moor,” he said.
“ But what is it?”
10
“ The farmers say it is the Hound of the Baskervilles.
I have heard it once or twice before.”
“ \bu do not believe such nonsense?” said I. “ What
do you think is the cause of so strange a sound?”
“ It may be the mire moving, or it may be a bird.”
15
A small butterfly had flown across our path, and at
once Stapleton ran off across the mire to catch it. I was
standing watching him when I heard footsteps, and
turning round I saw a woman near me on the path.
I could not doubt that this was Miss Stapleton. She
20 was dark, elegant and tall, quite unlike her brother.
“ Go back,” she said, “ go back to London at once.”
I could only stare at her in surprise.
“ For God’s sake do what I ask you. Go back. Get
away from this place! Now be quiet - my brother is
25 coming. Tell him nothing of what I have said.”
“ Hello, Beryl!” said he.
“ Hello, Jack, you are very hot. I was telling Sir
Henry how beautiful the moor is in the summer.”
“ Who do you think this is?”
30
“ I think that it must be Sir Henry Baskerville.”
“ No, no,” said I. “ I am his friend, Dr Watson.”
She became red in the face and said, “ Oh, I ’ve
mistaken you for Sir Henry. But you will come on,

44

won’t you, and see Merripit House?”
A short walk brought us to the house, which was very
elegant inside. I wondered what had brought this
highly educated man and this beautiful woman to live
in such a place on the wild, melancholy moor.
5
“ I had a school,” said Stapleton, “ in Yorkshire. An
epidemic broke out, and three of the boys died, so I had
to close the school down.”
“ But this place must be a little dull for your sister?”
“ No, no, I never find it dull,” she said quickly.
10
I left the house to go back to Baskerville Hall. But
before I had reached the road, I was surprised to see
Miss Stapleton sitting on a large rock beside the path.
Clearly, she had taken a shorter path than mine.
“ I have run all the way to meet you, Dr Watson,” said 15
she. “ I must not stay or my brother may miss me. I
wanted to say how sorry I am that I took you for Sir
Henry. Please forget what I said.”

45

5

10

15

20

“ But I can’t forget it, Miss Stapleton,” said I. “ I am
Sir Henry’s friend. Tell me why you did not want Sir
Henry to stay here.”
Now she seemed uncertain. “ I just wanted to warn
him that he might be in danger here. That was all.”
“ But what danger?”
“ You know the story of the hound?” she asked.
“ I do not believe in such nonsense.”
“ But I do. Please take Sir Henry away. Why should
he wish to live in this place of danger?”
“ Because it is a place of danger. That is Sir Henry’s
nature! If you can’t give me some more exact informa­
tion I am afraid it will be impossible to get him to move.
But why should you not wish your brother to hear what
you said?”
“ He wants Sir Henry to live at the Hall, because he
thinks that is good for the poor people upon the moor.
M y brother would be very angry if he knew that I had
said anything to make Sir Henry go away. So I will say
no more. I must get back. Good-bye.”
She turned and went, while I, with my mind full of
shadowy fears, continued to Baskerville Hall.

46

8 First Report of Dr Watson
Baskerville Hall, October 13th
My dear Holmes,
M y letters and telegrams have told you all that has
happened in this lonely part of the world. The longer
one stays here, the more does the spirit of the dark, wild
moor sink into one’s soul.
At first, I had nothing to report to you. Then, last
night, something very surprising happened, which I
shall tell you at the end of this letter. But, first of all, I
must tell you something else.
First there is the convict on the moor. Two weeks have
passed since he fled, and he has not been seen. Proba­
bly he has now left the moor, and so the farmers sleep
the better. We are four men and can take care of our­
selves. But the Stapletons live miles away from any
help. Sir Henry wanted Perkins, the driver, to go and
sleep there, but Stapleton would not hear of it.
The fact is that Sir Henry is beginning to take an
interest in Miss Stapleton. It is not to be wondered at,
for Stapleton’s sister is a very beautiful woman.
On the second morning, Stapleton took Sir Henry
and me to show us the spot on the moor where the
legend says that Hugo Baskerville was killed. Stapleton
told us of families who suffered from some evil
influence, and he seemed to think that the hound,
though not real, was something like that. On our way
back we lunched at Merripit House, and it was there
that Sir Henry first saw Miss Stapleton. They dine here
tonight, and we shall probably go to them next week.
On Thursday, Dr Mortimer took us all to the Alley,

47

5

10

15

20

25

30

to show us where old Sir Charles died that night.
I have also met one other neighbour. This is Mr
Frankland of Lafter Hall, an hour’s walk to the south of
us. He is an elderly man who is quick to anger. He has
5 a large telescope for looking at stars, and now he is using
it to search for the convict on the moor.

10

15

20

25

I told Sir Henry that the telegram you sent from
London to the Grimpen postmaster had not helped us.
Sir Henry at once called in Barrymore and asked him
if he had received the telegram himself.
“ No,” said he, “ I was in the loft at the time, and my
wife brought the telegram up to me.”
In the evening Barrymore spoke of the telegram
again. “ I could not quite understand why you asked me
about the telegram this morning, Sir Henry. I hope I
have done nothing to make you lose your trust in me.”
Sir Henry told him that it was not so, giving him
some of his old clothes to make him happy.
Mrs Barrymore is of interest to me. I have told you
how I heard her crying bitterly at night, and since then
I have more than once seen tears on her face. She bears
some sorrow deep within her heart.
You know that I am a light sleeper, and in this house
I sleep less than ever. Last night, about two in the
morning, I heard steps passing my room. I rose,
opened my door, and looked out. A long black shadow
was moving down the corridor. This shadow was
thrown by a man walking with a candle in his hand. The
man was Barrymore.

48

I waited until he reached the end of the corridor,
where I saw him enter a room. Then, I crept down the
corridor and looked into the room.
Barrymore was at the window, holding the candle
against the glass. For some minutes he stood looking
out into the darkness; then, seeming heavy-hearted, he
put out the light. I went back quickly to my room.
Much later, I heard a door being shut, but I could not
tell which door. I have had a long talk with Sir Henry
this morning, and we have made plans to find out what
Barrymore is doing in that room at night.

4 The H ound of th e Baskervilles

49

9 Second Report of Dr Watson
Baskerville Hall, October 15th
M y dear Holmes,
Much has happened since I wrote to you. In some
ways things are now clearer, and in some ways not.
5
Before breakfast on the morning after my adventure,
I went to look at that room down the end of the corridor.
From the window there is a fine view over the moor.
Barrymore, then, must have been looking out for some­
thing or somebody upon the moor. But the night was
10 very dark, so how could he hope to see anyone? Or was
it perhaps a love affair?
After breakfast, I told Sir Henry what I had seen. He
was less surprised than I had expected.
“ I knew that Barrymore walked about at night,” he
15 said. “ Two or three times I have heard his steps in the
corridor, just about the hour you say.”
“ Perhaps, then, he goes to the same window every
night,1 I suggested.
“ Perhaps he does. If so, we should be able to follow
20 him, and see what he is after. I wonder what your friend
Holmes would do if he were here?”
“ I believe he would do exactly what you now suggest.
He would follow Barrymore and see what he did.”
“ Then we shall follow him together.”
25
Sir Henry has great plans for improving the house.
When he has finished, he will need only a wife. There
are clear signs that this will happen if the lady is willing.
I have seldom seen a man more in love than Sir Henry
is with the beautiful Miss Stapleton.
30
This morning after our conversation, he put on his

50

hat to go out, and of course I did the same.
“ What, are you coming, Watson?” he asked, look­
ing at me.
“Are you going on the moor?” I asked.
“ Yes, I am.”
“ You know what Holmes told me. I must go with
you.”
He smiled at me. “ Not this time, my dear fellow.”
I did not know what to say or do, and he picked up his
stick and was gone.
But when I came to think the matter over, I was sorry
that I had let him go alone. So I set off at once in the
direction of Merripit House.
I did not see Sir Henry until I came to the point
where the path goes in two directions. I walked up on to
the top of a hill; from there I saw him at once. He was
on the path below, and there was a lady by his side who
could only be Miss Stapleton. It was clear that they had
planned this meeting.
The two were talking to each other. But I was not the
only one who was looking at them. Much nearer to
them, I saw Stapleton with his butterfly-net.
Suddenly Sir Henry drew the lady to his side. His
arm was around her. The next moment, I saw them
spring apart and turn round. Stapleton was running
wildly towards them. What the scene meant I could not
understand. It seemed that Stapleton was shouting at
Sir Henry, who was trying to explain the situation. At
last Stapleton turned and walked away, making signs to
his sister to follow him. Sir Henry stood for a minute
looking at them, and then he walked back the way he
had come with his head hanging. I ran down the hill
and met him.

51

5

10

15

20

25

30

“ Hello, Watson, where have you dropped from ?”
I told him everything.
“ You would have thought the middle o f the moor a
good place for a man to be private. But the whole coun5 try seems to have been out to see me do my wooing. And
a poor wooing it was. D id you see that brother o f hers?
woo, try to win the hand of a woman in marriage

52

He would not even let me touch her hand! ”
“ Did he say so?”
“ That, and a good deal more. I tell you, Watson, I
have known her only these few weeks; yet from the first,
I just felt she was made for me. But her brother would
never let us get together. It was only today for the first
time that I saw a chance of having a few words with her
alone. She was glad to meet me, but it was not love she
wanted to talk about. She kept repeating that this was
a place of danger. She said she would never be happy
until I left it. I told her that if she wanted me to go, she
would have to go with me. Then I asked her to marry
me. But before she could answer, this brother of hers
came running up. He was white with anger, and told
me not to speak to the lady.”
Our friend’s title, his fortune, his age, his character
and his looks all speak for him. I know nothing against
him, except this family legend about the hound.
However, on the afternoon of the same day, Stapleton
came over to say he was sorry, and he had a long talk
with Sir Henry. The result was that we are to dine at
Merripit House next Friday, so everything seems to be
all right again.
And now I pass on to the mystery of the crying in the
night. We have cleared it up by one night’s work, or
rather two nights’ work, for on the first night nothing
happened. I sat up with Sir Henry until three o’clock in
the morning, but no sound did we hear except the
striking of the clock. The next night, we sat quite still
smoking cigarettes. The clock struck one, and we had
almost given it up when we heard the sound of steps in
the corridor. We waited a minute in silence, then
opened the door.

53

5

10

15

20

25

30

Softly we crept along the corridor. At last we reached
the door of the room in which I had seen Barrymore two
nights before. When we looked in, we found him at the
window, candle in hand and his face pressed against the
5 glass.
Sir Henry walked into the room. Barrymore sprang
up and stood pale and shaking before us.
“ What are you doing here, Barrymore?”
“ It was the window, sir. I go round the rooms at night
10 to see that the windows are shut.”
“ Come now, Barrymore, no lies. What were you
doing at that window?”
“ I was holding a candle to the window.”
“And why were you holding a candle to the
15 window?”
“ Do not ask me. I give you my word, sir, that it is not
my secret, and that I cannot tell you.”
I took the candle and held it as he had done, and
stared into the darkness. Soon I saw a small spot of light
20 shining f^r away.
“ There it is!” I cried.
“ No, sir, it is nothing,” the butler broke in.
“ Move your light across the window, Watson,” cried
Sir Henry. “ See, the other moves also. A signal! Come,
25 speak up! Who is the person out there?”
“ I will not tell you.”
“ Then you can leave the Hall at once.”
“ Very good, sir. If I must, I must.”
“ Your family has lived with mine for over a hundred
30 years under this roof, and here I find you deep in secret
plans against me.”
“ No, no, sir; no, not against you!” cried a voice.
It was Mrs Barrymore, standing at the door.

54

“ It is m y doing, Sir Henry, all mine. He has done it
for my sake, and because I asked him.”
“ Speak out, then, what does it mean?”
“ M y unhappy brother is on the moor with nothing to
eat. T h e light is a signal to him that food is ready for
him. A n d his light out there is to show the spot to which
to bring the food.”
“ T hen your brother is . . . ”
“ T h e escaped convict, sir, Selden, the murderer.”
Sir H en ry and I both stared at the woman.
“ Yes, sir, m y name was Selden, and he is my younger
brother. We gave him his own way in everything, until
he came to think that the world was made for his
pleasure. H e met evil companions and he sank lower
and lower. W hen he came here one night, what could
we do? We took him in, and gave him something to eat,
and kept him here. Then you returned, and my brother
thought he would be safer on the moor. But every
second night we made sure if he was still there by
putting a light in the window. I f there was an answer,
my husband took out some bread and meat to him.
Every day we hoped that he was gone.”
“ Is this true, Barrym ore?” asked Sir Henry.
“ Yes, S ir H enry, every word of it.”
“ Well, forget what I have said. Go to your room, you
two, and we shall talk again in the morning.”
W hen they were gone, we looked out o f the window.
Far away we could still see the light.
“ How far do you think it is?”
“ Well, it cannot be far off if Barrymore had to carry
the food to it. I think it is near Cleft Tor. Watson, I am
going out to take that m an!”
“ I will come,” said I.

55

5

10

15

20

25

30

“ Then get your revolver and put on your boots, and
let us go.”
In five minutes we were outside and on our way. The
night air was cold, and just as we came out on the moor
5 a thin rain began to fall. We still saw the light burning
in front of us.
“ I say, Watson, what would Holmes say to this? Out
on the moor at night, when it is dark and dangerous?”
As if in answer to his words, there came out of the
10 darkness that strange cry which I had already heard
near the Grimpen Mire. Again and again it sounded.
Sir Henry caught my arm.
“ What is that, Watson?”
The cry died away.
15
“ Watson,” said Sir Henry, with a break in his voice,
“ it was the cry of a hound. What do people call it?”
M y blood ran cold, because I felt his fear. I did not
want to speak, but had to answer.
“ They say it is the cry of the Hound of the Basker20 villes.”
“ M y God, can there be some truth in all these
stories? It was one thing to laugh at them in London,
and it is another to stand out here in the darkness of the
moor and hear that cry. It seemed to freeze my very
25 blood. Feel my hand!”
His hand was as cold as a stone on the moor.
“ Shall we turn back?” I asked him.
“ No, we have come to get our man, and we will do it.
We are after the convict, and a hell-hound after us.
30 Come on. Not a devil in hell will stop us.”
We went on over the moor. At last we came close to
the light, which was a candle pushed in between two
rocks. It was strange to see this single candle burning

56

there near the tor, in the middle of the moor, with no
sign of life near it.
“ What shall we do now?” whispered Sir Henry.
“ Wait here. He must be near his light.”
I The words were hardly out of my mouth when we 5
saw him. Over the rocks we saw a terrible face with a
short beard. I sprang forward, and Sir Henry did the
same. At the same time, the other man threw a rock at
us and started running. We were both good runners,
but we had no chance of catching him. I could have 10
taken a long shot at him; but my revolver was only for
defence, not to shoot a man who was running away and
had no gun. At last we stopped and watched him
disappearing in the distance.
Then a very strange thing happened. We were 15

57

turning to go home, when I saw the figure of a man
upon the tor. This figure, black against the silver moon,
wa.s that of a tall thin man. He stood with his arms
folded and his head bowed, as if thinking. It was not the
5 convict. This man was far from the place where the
latter had disappeared. I pointed him out to Sir Henry,
but when we looked again the man was gone.
Today we mean to tell the Princetown people where
they should look for the convict. The moor still holds its
10 mysteries. Perhaps in my next letter I can tell you some
more about this also. Best of all would it be if you could
come down to us.

58

10 The Diary of Dr Watson
October 16th.
A dull and rainy day. I am heavy-hearted and have a
feeling of coming danger, which is the more terrible
because I cannot describe it.
We had a small scene this morning after breakfast.
Barrymore asked to speak with Sir Henry, and they
were in his room for some time. Listening through the
closed door, I more than once heard them speaking in
loud voices. After a time Sir Henry opened his door and
called for me.
“ Barrymore thinks we have treated him badly,” he
said. “ He thinks it was not fair to hunt Selden when he,
of his own free will, had told us the secret.”
The butler was standing, very pale, but very calm,
before us.
“ I may have spoken too warmly, sir,” said he, “ and if
so I beg your pardon. At the same time, I was very
surprised when I learned this morning that you two
gentlemen had been trying to catch Selden. The poor
fellow has enough to fight against without my setting
more people after him.”
“ The man is a public danger. There's no safety for
anyone until he is under lock and key. And besides,”
went on Sir Henry, “ you only told us, or rather your
wife told us, when it was forced from you.”
“ H e’ll hurt nobody, sir. I give you my word upon
that. You may be sure that in a few days he will be on his

diary, book with day-by-day accounts of what has happened

59

5

10

15

20

25

way to South America. I beg you not to let the police
know that he is still on the moor.”
“ What do you say, Watson?”
“ If he was out of the country, it would be cheaper for
5 everybody.”
“ That is true,” said Sir Henry. “All right, Barry­
more, you can go.”
“ Thank you, sir, from my heart. You have been so
kind to us, sir, that I should like to do something for
10 you. I know something about Sir Charles’s death.”
Sir Henry and I were both on our feet.
“ Do you know how he died?”
“ No, sir, I don’t know that.”
“ What, then?”
15
“ I know why he was at the gate at that hour. It was to
meet a woman.”
“ To meet a woman? H e?”
“ Yes, sir.”
“And the woman’s name?”
20
“ I can’t give you the name, sir, but I can give you the
initials. Her initials were L . L . ”
“ How do you know this, Barrymore?”
“ Well, sir, your uncle had a letter that morning. It
was from Coombe Tracey and it was written in a
25 woman’s handwriting.”
“ Well?”
“ Well, sir, a few weeks ago my wife was cleaning out
Sir Charles’s room, and she found a letter in the fire­
place. Most of it was burnt, but the end of the letter
30 could still be read. It said: ‘ Please, as you are a gentle­
man, burn this letter, and be at the gate at ten o’clock.’
initials, first letters of a person’s names

60

Under it were the initials L .L.”
“ W hy have you not told us this before?”
“ Well, sir, I thought no good could come of it and
that it’ s well to go carefully when there’s a lady in the
case. Even the best of us .
.
5
“ Very good, Barrymore, you can go.”
“ Now, Watson, what do you think we should do?”
“ Let Holmes know all about the letter at once. I am
sure he will then come.”
I went to my room to write my report. I had heard 10
little from Baker Street, and it was clear to me that
Holmes was very busy working. I wish he were here.
October 17 th.
All today the rain poured down. I thought of the poor
convict on the moor. And then I thought of that other
man - the face in the cab, the man on the tor. Was he
also out in the cold, pouring rain?
In the evening I put on my raincoat and walked out
on the moor. I found the tor on which I had seen the
man two nights before, but there was no sign of him.
As I walked back I met Dr Mortimer. I found him
much troubled over the disappearance of his spaniel.
The dog had wandered on to the moor and had never
come back. I thought of the Grimpen Mire, and I do
not believe that he will see his little dog again.
“ I suppose there are few people round about here
that you do not know?” I said to him.
“ Hardly any, I think.”
“ Can you, then, tell me the name of any woman
whose initials are L .L .? ”
“ Yes, there is Laura Lyons - her initials are L.L. but she lives at Coombe Tracey.”

61

15

20

25

30

“ W ho is she?”
“ She is Frankland’s daughter.”
“ W hat! O ld Frankland?”
“ Exactly. She married an artist named Lyons. He
5 left her, but refused to give her a divorce. Her father
refuses to have anything to do with her.”
“ How does she live?”
“ Her father gives her a little money. Stapleton has
helped her, and Sir Charles. She earns a little by writing
10 letters and other papers for people. She needs money to
get her divorce.”
Mortimer stayed for dinner. Afterwards, I sat alone
and Barrymore brought me my coffee. I took the
chance to ask him a few questions.
15
“ Is Selden still on the moor?”
“ I do not know, sir. I ’ve not heard of him since I left
food for him last, and that was three days ago.”
“ Did you see him then?”
“ No, sir, but the food was gone when next I went.”
20
“ Then he was certainly there?”
“ Yes - unless it was the other man who took it.”
I sat with my coffee cup half-way to my lips, and!
stared at Barrym ore.
“ You know there is another man, then?”
25
“ Selden told me. I tell you, sir, I don’t like it. There
is danger out on the moor, waiting for Sir Henry. If only
he would go back to London!”
“And where did Selden say this other man lived?”
“Among the old stone huts on the hillside .”
30
“ But how about his food?”

divorce, official ending of a marriage

62

“ Selden found out that he has got a boy who brings
him all he needs, probably from Coombe Tracey”
“ Very good, Barrymore, thank you ”
When the butler had gone, I walked over to the black
window and looked out at the moor. It was a wild and 5
windy night. What evil man would live in such a place
at such a time? There, in that hut upon the moor, seems
to lie the very centre of the problem. I swear that
another day shall not pass before I have done all that a
man can do to find out this secret of the moor.
10

63

11 The Man on the Tor
The next morning I told Sir Henry what I had learned
about Mrs Lyons, and I asked him if he would like to go
with me to Coombe Tracey. At first he very much
wanted to, but then we decided that I had better go
5 alone.
When I reached Coombe Tracey I told Perkins to put
up the horses and asked my way to the lady’s rooms. A
servant showed me in. Mrs Lyons sprang up when she
saw me.
10
“ I have the pleasure,” said I, “ of knowing your
father.”
“ I never see my father. His friends are not mine. Sir
Charles alone helped me to keep alive.”
“ You knew Sir Charles well, didn’t you?”
15
“ Yes.”
“ Did you exchange letters with him?”
“ W hy do you ask?”
“ It is better that I should ask you questions here than
that this affair should be a public scandal.”
20
“ Well, I will answer. I did write to him once or twice,
to thank him for what he had done for me.”
“ Did you ever write asking him to meet you?”
“ No.”
“ Not on the very day of Sir Charles’s death?”
25
Her face turned white. Her lips could not speak tU
“ no” which I rather saw than heard.
“ I can even tell you what was in the letter: ‘ Please, as
you are a gentleman, burn this letter, and be at the gate
at ten o’clock.’ ”
30
She was deeply shocked, but managed to answer me.

64

“ Is there no such a thing as a gentleman?” she said.
“ Y m are not fair to Sir Charles. H e did burn the
letter. B u t sometimes it may be possible to read a letter
even after it has been burnt. You wrote it?”
“ Yes. I did write it. I wished him to help me, so I
asked him to meet me.”
“ Bu t w hy at such an hour?”
“ Because I had ju st learned that he was going to
London next day and might be away for months.”
5 The H ound o f the Baskervilles

65

5

5

10

15

20

25

30

“ But why in the garden and not in the house?”
“ Do you think that a woman could go alone at that
hour to an unmarried man’s house?”
“ Well, what happened when you did get there?”
“ I never went.”
“ W hy not?”
“ That is a private matter. I cannot tell you.”
Again and again I asked her in different ways, but I
could not get past that point.
For the moment I had to give this up and think about
the man on the tor. First of all, I had to search for him
among the stone huts upon the moor. This was not easy,
because there were hundreds of huts.
But now I was lucky, for as we travelled back along
the road, we met M r Frankland by his garden gate.
“ Good morning, Dr Watson,” he cried, “ you must
come in and have a glass of wine with me.”
I sent Perkins and the carriage home, and went in to
M r Frankland. After some conversation, he told me
that he had secret information about the convict on the
moor.
“ You don’t mean,” I said in surprise, “ that you know
where he is?”
“ I am quite sure that I could help the police to catch
him. The way to catch a man is to find out where he gets
his food.”
“ No doubt,” said I, “ but how do you know that he is
anywhere on the moor?”
“ I know it because I have seen with my own eyes a
boy who takes him his food.”
“ I should think it is the son of one of the shepherds
who is taking out his father’s dinner.”
“ There are no sheep on that part of the moor. It is too

66

stony. No, it must be the convict.”
I was sure now that the man he was speaking of was
the man on the tor, but I did not tell him.
“ Come, sir, come,” cried Frankland, “ you will see
with your own eyes.”
5
And he took me up to the flat roof of the house and
put his eye to his astronomer’s telescope.
“ Quick, D r Watson, before he passes over the hill.”
I looked, and there he was, a small boy going up
the hill. He looked round him, to see if anyone was 10
following, and then he disappeared over the hill.
“ Well, am I right?”
*

*

*

The sun was already sinking when I reached the top of
that stony hill. The boy was nowhere to be seen. But on 15
the hillside was a circle of old stone huts, and one of
them had enough roof to protect a man from rain and
wind. This must be where the stranger lived.

67

Throwing aside my cigarette, I took out my revolver,
walked up to the door, and looked in. The place was
empty. In a corner, however, I found a coat, a parcel of
food on a flat stone, and the remains of a fire. Under the
5 food lay a sheet of paper with writing on it. I took the
paper up, and this is what I read:
‘ Dr Watson has gone to Coombe Tracey.’
For a minute I stood there with the paper in my
hands. It was I, then, and not Sir Henry, who was being
10 followed by this secret man. I swore I would not leave
the hut until I knew who the man was who lived there.
Outside, all was peaceful in the golden evening light,
yet I could feel none of the peace of nature. With every
nerve awake I sat in the dark of the hut and waited for
15 the coming of the strange man on the tor.

68

A n d then at last I heard him. Far away came the
sound o f his footsteps. Nearer and nearer they came. In
the darkest corner o f the hut, I held my revolver ready.
There was a long pause. Then the footsteps came
nearer again, and a shadow fell across the door.
“ It is a lovely evening, my dear Watson,” said a
well-known voice. “ I really think you will be more
comfortable outside than in the hut.”

69

5

12 Death on the Moor
For a moment or two I could not believe my ears. Then
I cried, “ Holmes! Holmes!”
“ Come out,” said he, “ and please be careful with the
revolver”
5
I came out, and there he sat on a stone outside.
“ I never was more glad to see anyone in my life,”
said I.
“ Or more surprised?”
“ Yes, I am surprised. You saw my footprints, 1
10 suppose?”
“ No. But when I see the end of a cigarette marked
Bradley, Oxford Street, I know that my friend Watson
is somewhere near. You threw your cigarette down just
before you entered the hut.”
15
“ Exactly”
“ So you thought that I was the convict?”
“ I did not know who you were, but I had made up my
mind to find out.”
“And how had you found out that there was some20 body hiding here?”
“ Your boy had been seen, so I knew where to look.”
“ The old man with the telescope, no doubt.”
He rose and looked into the hut.
“ I see that Cartwright has been here. What is this
25 paper? So you have been to Coombe Tracey, have
you?”
“ Yes.”
“ To see Mrs Laura Lyons?”
“ Exacdy.”
30
“ Well done. When we put our results together, I

70

think we shall know almost everything about the case.”
“ But why did you come here, and what have you
been doing? I thought you were in London”
“ Had I been with you and Sir Henry, I should have
looked at things from the same point of view as you. As
it is, I have been able to move freely. And our enemies
have not known that I was here.”
“ But why keep me in the dark? M y reports must
have been of no use.”
Holmes took out some papers from his pocket.
“ Here are your reports, my dear fellow. You have
done very well. And now tell me the result of your visit
to Mrs Laura Lyons.”
The sun had set. We went into the hut, which was
now almost dark. There, sitting together, I told Holmes
of my conversation with the lady.
“ This is very important,” said he. “ It tells us some­
thing new; you know, perhaps, that this lady is a very
close friend of Stapleton’s?”
“ I did not know that.”
“ There can be no doubt about it. They meet, they
write, there is a complete understanding between
them. I only wish I could use it to set his wife free.”
“ His wife?”
“ The lady we know as Miss Stapleton is his wife.”
“ What! It is Stapleton, then, who is our enemy - it is
he who watched us in London?”
“ I think so.”
And suddenly I saw Stapleton as a terrible creature
with a smiling face and a murderous heart.
“And the warning - it must have come from her!”
“ Exactly.”
“ But are you sure of this, Holmes? How do you know

71

5

10

15

20

25

30

that the woman is his wife?”
“ Because he so far forgot himself as to tell you that he
was once a schoolmaster. And it is always easy to find
out about a schoolmaster’s life.”
5
“ What about Mrs Laura Lyons then?”
“ She has almost certainly thought that Stapleton was
unmarried. When we tell her that he is married, she
may help us. We must both go and see her to-morrow
Don’t you think, Watson, that you have been away
10 from Sir Henry long enough now?”
“ One last question, Holmes. What is he after?”
“ Murder - cold-blooded murder. But my net is
closing upon him, just as his net is closing upon Sir
Henry. Another day or two, and then I am ready to
15 strike. - Listen!”
A terrible scream burst from the silent darkness of
the moor. The cry turned my blood to ice.
“ Oh, my God, what is it? What does it mean?”
Holmes had sprung to his feet. “ Where is it?” he
20 whispered, and I knew from the sound of his voice that
he, the man of iron, was shaken to the soul.
Again the cry swept through the silent night, louder
and much nearer this time. And a new sound, a deep,
musical sound, came with it, rising and falling.
25
“ The hound!” cried Holmes. “ Come, Watson,
come, or we shall be too late!”
He started running over the moor, and I followed at
his heels. We heard one last, hopeless scream, then the
sound of someone falling from a height.
30
I saw Holmes strike his forehead with his hand. He
stamped his feet upon the ground.
“ He has beaten us, Watson. We are too late.”
Blindly we ran through the darkness.

72

“ Can you see anything?”
“ Nothing”
We came to the foot of a cliff. There, a man was lying
on his face. It was Sir Henry Baskerville - dead! We
both knew that reddish-brown suit - the one he had
worn on that first morning in Baker Street.

5

“ Oh, Holmes, I shall never forgive myself for leaving
him. Where is this hound which drove him to his death?
It may be hiding among the rocks at this moment. And 10
Stapleton, where is he? He shall pay for this.”
“ He shall. I will see to that. Two Baskervilles have
been murdered - the one frightened to death by the
very sight of an animal which he thought to be super­
natural, the other driven to his end in his wild flight to 15
escape from it.”
We stood with bitter hearts beside the body.

73

5

10

15

20

25

30

“ We must send for help, Holmes”
“A beard! A beard! The man has a beard!” cried
Holmes bending over the body. “ It is not Sir Henry”
“ A beard?”
“ It is my neighbour, the convict.”
There could be no doubt about it. It was Selden, the
convict. Then I understood. Sir Henry had once given
his old clothes to Barrymore, and he in turn had given
them to Selden, to help him escape.
I told Holmes this. “ Then the clothes have been the
poor fellow’s death,” said he. “ Stapleton has used the
stolen boot to set the hound on Sir Henry. There is one
very strange thing, however: how did Selden, in the
darkness, come to know that the hound was after him?”
“And why should the hound be loose tonight?”
A man was walking towards us, and I saw the red end
of his cigar. The moon shone on him. It was Stapleton.
“ Why, Dr Watson, that is not you, is it? But, dear
me, what is this? Somebody hurt? No - don’t tell me
that is ou^Triend, Sir Henry!”
He went past and bent over the dead man.
“ Who - who’s this?” he asked, hardly able to speak.
“ It is Selden, the convict.”
Stapleton turned a pale face upon us.
“ He seems,” said Holmes, “ to have broken his neck
falling down the cliff. M y friend and I were walking on
the moor when we heard a cry.”
“ I heard a cry too. That was what brought me out. I
was afraid for Sir Henry.”
“ Why for Sir Henry?” I could not help asking.
“ Because I had asked him to come over to Merripit
House. Did you hear anything else besides a cry?”
“ No.”

74

“ I was wondering if any other sound had been heard.
You know the story of the Hound of the Baskervilles?”
“ We heard no other sound”
“ What do you think of it, M r Sherlock Holmes?”
“ I think he ran about the moor, mad with hunger,
cold and fear, and fell and broke his neck. But how did
you know me?”
“ We have been expecting you since Dr Watson came
down.”
“ Well, I return to London to-morrow,” said Holmes.
“ Oh, you return to-morrow?”
“ Yes.”
“ Let us now put something over Selden’s face and
leave him here; he will be safe until morning.”
And so it was arranged. Holmes and I set off for
Baskerville Hall.
“ How cool he was, Watson, when he saw that the
wrong man had been killed! I told you in London that
he was the most dangerous man we have ever been up
against”
“ I am sorry that he has seen you.”
“ Well, it can’ t be helped.”
“ W hy should we not arrest him at once?”
“ Because, my dear Watson, we cannot yet prove any­
thing against him. You see how clever Stapleton is? We
have not seen the hound. Both Selden and Sir Charles
appear to have died by accident. There is nothing to
show that a crime has been committed. Now, say
nothing of the hound to Sir Henry. He must go alone to
dine with the Stapletons tomorrow, and he had better
not appear too worried or afraid then. And now, I
think, we are both ready for our own dinners.”

75

5

10

15

20

25

30

13 Fixing the Nets
Sir Henry was more pleased than surprised to see
Sherlock Holmes. We told him something, though not
everything, of what had happened. But first I had to tell
Barrymore and his wife that Selden was dead. He took
5 it calmly, but she cried bitterly. To her, he always
remained her little brother.
“ I have been having a dull time in the house all day,”
said Sir Henry later, at dinner. “ I promised you not to
go out alone. But for that, I might have had a more
10 lively evening, for I was asked over to the Stapletons.
But what about the case? Watson and I are not much]
the wiser since we came down.”
“ I think I shall get the hound all right, if you will give
me your help, and I hope to be able to make the
15 situation clear to you before long.”
“ Whatever you tell me to do I will do.”
“ Very good, -” Holmes stopped suddenly and stared
over my head at the wall.
“ What is it?” we both cried.
20
I could see that he was trying to appear calm, but his
eyes shone as he waved his hand at the line of portraits
of past Baskervilles.
“ Those are very fine portraits,” he said.
“ Well, I ’ m glad to hear you say so,” said Sir Henry.
25
“ Who is that gentleman opposite me?”
“Ah, he is the cause of all this business, the evil Hugo,
who first woke the Hound of the Baskervilles. We
certainly shall not forget him.”
“ Dear me,” said Holmes, “ he seems a quiet man,
30 but there is a devil in his eyes.”

76

It was not until later, when Sir Henry had gone to
his room, that Holmes told me why he had been so
interested in the portrait of Sir Hugo. He took me back
to the dining-room and held a candle to the portrait.
“ Do you see anything there?”
“ No”
“ Is it like anybody you know?”

5

“ N o .”

Holmes stood up on a chair and held his hand over
the broad hat and the hair.
“ Good Heavens!” I cried. “ It is the face of 10
Stapleton ”
“ \es, we have him, we have him, and before tomor­
row night he will be in our net as helpless as one of his
own butterflies. The fellow is a Baskerville, that is
certain, and the money is what he is after.”
15
I got up early the next morning, but Holmes was up
earlier still.
“ We should have a full day today, Watson,” he said

77

5

10

15

20

25

30

with a happy smile. “ The nets are all in place, and the
drag is about to begin”
“ What are we to do next?”
“ See Sir Henry. Ah, here he is.”
“ Good morning, Holmes,” said Baskerville. “ What
am I to do?”
“ I understand that you are to dine with our friends
the Stapletons at Merripit House tonight.”
“ I hope you will come too.”
“ I fear that Watson and I must go to London.”
“ To London?”
“ Yes, I think we should be more useful there.”
“ I hoped that you were going to stay and help me
through this business. The Hall and the moor are not
very pleasant places when one is alone.”
“ M y dear fellow, you must trust me and do exactly
what I tell you. You can tell your friends that we are
sorry we-cannot come; we have to go back.”
“ I should like to go to London with you. Why should
I stay alone?”
“ Because I tell you to stay.”
“All right, then, I will stay.”
“ One more thing, I wish you to drive to Merripit
House. Then send back your carriage, and let the
Stapletons know that you mean to walk home.”
“ To walk across the moor?”
“ Yes.”
“ That is what you have always told me not to do.”
“ Yes, but today it is very important that you do it.
Your life will be safe - though only if you take the
straight path which leads you home across the moor”
“ I will do just what you say.”
After breakfast we left Baskerville Hall, and two

78

hours later we were at Coombe Tracey station. A small
boy was waiting on the platform.
“ You will take this train to town, Cartwright. When
you arrive, you will send a telegram to Sir Henry, in my
name. The telegram will say that if he finds the money
which I have dropped, he is to send it to me at Baker
Street.”
“ Yes, sir.”
“And ask at the station office if there is a telegram for
me.”
The boy returned with a telegram. It ran: “ Coming
down, arrive at five-forty - Lestrade.”
“ That is an answer to my telegram of this morning.
Lestrade is a police detective, with official papers to
help us. Now we are going to Mrs Laura Lyons.”
Mrs Laura Lyons was in her office when we came in.
“ M y friend here has told me what you have said
about the death of Sir Charles Baskerville,” said
Holmes. “ Now, would you tell us what you have not
said?”
“ What I have not said?”
“ Yes, you have not said what your letter has to do
with Sir Charles’s death.”
“ It has nothing to do with it.”
“ We think this is a case of murder, and that both your
friend, M r Stapleton, and his wife may have something
to do with it.”
Mrs Lyons sprang up. “ His wife!” she cried.
“ The woman who is with him as his sister is really his
wife.”
“ Prove it to me.”
“ I have come prepared to do so,” said Holmes.
“ Here is a portrait of the couple taken in York four

79

5

10

15

20

25

30

years ago. Under it is written ‘ M r and Mrs Vandeleur’,
but you will see at once that it is the Stapletons.”
She looked at it, and then looked up at Holmes.
“ This man asked me to marry him. He has lied to me.
5 Why should I now protect him? Ask me what you like.”
“ Stapleton asked you to send the letter to Sir
Charles, didn’t he?”
“ He stood over me while I wrote it.”
“And Stapleton told you that Sir Charles would give
10 you money for the expenses of your divorce?”
“ Exactly.”
“And then, after you had sent the letter, he asked you
not to go after all?”
“ He said that he did not want another man to give
15 me money for the divorce.”
“And then you heard nothing until you read the
reports of the death in the papers?”
“ That is so.”
“And he made you swear not to say anything to
20 anybody?”
“ He did.”
“ You have been in very great danger. We must go
now. You may hear from us again soon.”
*

*

*

The London express came into the station, and a small,
25 strong man sprang from the train. It was Lestrade.
“Anything good?” he asked.
“ The biggest thing for years,” said Holmes.

80

14 The Hound of the Baskervilles
It was dark when we reached the moor.
“ H ave you a revolver, Lestrade?” asked Holmes
T he litde detective smiled. “As long as I have my
trousers, I have my gun. W hat are we going to do?”
“ Those lights over there,” said Holmes, “ are the
lights o f M erripit House. And we are going to wait
here. Watson, you know the house. G o on quietly to the
house and see what they are doing.”
I crept to a window and looked in. There were only
two men in the room, Sir H enry and Stapleton. They
were smoking cigars and drinking coffee.
Suddenly Stapleton got up and left the room. H e left
the house and walked across the yard to an outhouse. I
heard him go into it: then there came a strange noise
inside, as o f feet moving. After a while, he returned to
the house. I crept quiedy back to my companions and
told them what I had seen.

6 The H ound o f the Baskervilles

81

“ You say, Watson, that the lady is not there?”
“ No”
Over the Grimpen Mire there now lay a thick white
fog, covering all the low ground like an icefield, on
5 which the moon shone brightly from above. Minute by
minute, the fog was rising higher. Holmes looked at it.
“ It is coming towards us, Watson. If he is not here in
a quarter of an hour, it will cover the path, and we shall
not be able to see him.”
10
We moved to higher ground, above the fog.
A sound of quick steps broke the silence. We stared
into the white wall of the fog in front of us. The steps
came nearer, and Sir Henry stepped out of the fog and
into the clear, moonlit night. He passed near where we
15 lay and walked quickly on, now and then looking
nervously over his shoulder.
“ Lifeten! ” cried Holmes, and I heard him making his
revolver ready. “ Look out, it’s coming!”
From inside the white fog, there came the soft sound
20 of an animal running. I looked at Holmes. Holmes
stared at the wall of the fog. Then his eyes opened wide
and his mouth fell open. Lestrade gave a scream and
threw himself on his face. I sprang to my feet.
Out from the fog sprang a hound, an enormous
25 coal-black hound, but not such a hound as man has
ever seen. Fire burst from its open mouth and lay
around its eyes. Flames played along the hair of its neck
and back. It was a figure from a frightful dream.
Running and jumping at once, it followed the steps
30 of Sir Henry. We were unable to move, so great was the
shock to our nerves. Then Holmes and I both fired our
revolvers together. The hound gave a terrible cry of
pain, but kept on running. Far away on the path, we saw

82

Sir H en ry looking back, his face white in the m oon­
light, his hands raised, staring helplessly at the frightful
thing which was hunting him down.
But that cry o f pain told us that we could hurt this
hound and therefore kill him. Never have I seen a man
run as Holm es ran that night. I ran behind him, and
Lestrade came last. As we flew up the path, we heard
scream after scream from Sir H enry and the deep roar
of the hound. I was in time to see the hound spring upon

83

Sir Henry, throw him to the ground, and put its teeth to
his throat. But the next moment Holmes had fired five
more times, and the creature fell to the ground with a
last terrible cry of pain and lay still. The enormous
5 hound was dead.
Sir Henry lay where he had fallen. Lestrade gave him
some brandy to drink, and he opened his eyes.
“ M y God!” he whispered. “ What was it? What, in
Heaven’s name, was it?”
10
“ It’s dead, whatever it is,” said Holmes. “ We’ve now
killed the Hound of the Baskervilles.”
I put my hand on its mouth, and as I held them up my
fingers shone with fire.
“ Phosphorus,” I said.
15
“ What do you want to do now?” asked Sir Henry.
“ Leave you here for a moment. If you will wait, then
one of us will go back with you to the Hall,” I said. We
helped him to sit up.
“ Now we only want our man, ” said Holmes. “ Wei
20 search the house, in case he’s still there.”
The front door was open, and we ran in. No sip
could we see of the man we had come for. But on the
first floor, one of the doors was locked.
“ There’s someone in here,” cried Lestrade.
25
Holmes kicked the door open. Gun in hand, we at
three ran into the room. In the middle of the room, 3
figure stood, tied to a post and covered with sheets.
We took off the ropes and the sheets, and Mrs Staple­
ton sank upon the floor in front of us. A long red mart
30 lay across her neck.
brandy, strong alcoholic drink, often called cognac
phosphorus, chemical element which shines in the dark

84

“ He has beaten her!” cried Holmes. “ Quick,
Lestrade, your brandy bottle! ”
She opened her eyes. “ Is he safe? Has he escaped?”
“ He cannot get away from us.”
“ No, no, not my husband. Sir Henry? Is he safe?”
5
“ Yes.”
“And the hound?”
“ It is dead.”
“ Thank God! Look how this evil man has treated
me!”
10
“ Tell us where we shall find Stapleton.”
“ There is only one place where he can have fled. The
old hut on the island in the Mire. That is where he kept
the hound, when he dared not have it here.”
It was too foggy to enter the Mire, so we left Lestrade 15
in the house and took Sir Henry back to the Hall. Sir
Henry, after the shock to his nerves, soon had a very
high temperature, and Dr Mortimer cared for him.
The two of them were to travel round the world before
Sir Henry regained his health and strength.
20
*

*

*

The next morning we were taken by Mrs Stapleton to
the secret path through the mire, marked only by the
sticks which Stapleton had placed. The path led us in
every direction, while all around us the water and the
wet, soft ground lay ready to drag us down. More than 25
once, one of us put a foot wrong and sank into the mire,
so that the others had to pull him out. Only once did we
see a sign that someone had passed that way: Sherlock
Holmes leant over and pulled from the water an old
black boot, marked “ Meyers, Toronto” .
30
“ It is our friend Sir Henry’s missing boot. Stapleton
must have thrown it down here as he fled.”

85

But of Stapleton himself we found no sign. Some­
where in the heart of the great Grimpen Mire, this cold
and hard-hearted man is for ever buried.
On the island in the middle of the mire, we found the
5 hut where the hound had been kept. There was a pile of
bones, a few of them with some brown hair.
“A dog!” said Holmes. “Ah yes, indeed, it is a
spaniel. Poor Mortimer will never see his dog again. I
said it in London, Watson, and I say it again now: never
10 before have we helped to hunt down a more dangerous
man than the one who lies out there” - he swept his long
arm towards the greenish mire and the reddish-brown
hillsides of the moor beyond it.

86

15 Looking Back
It was the end of November, and Holmes and I sat by
the fire in our sitting-room in Baker Street. Sir Henry
and Dr Mortimer were in London, on their way to that
long voyage which was to do Sir Henry’s nerves so
much good. The two men had come to see us that after- 5
noon, so it was natural to speak of the case.
“ The whole course of events,” said Holmes, “ was
quite clear to Stapleton, but not to us. I have had two
conversations with Mrs Stapleton, and the case is now
cleared up in all its details.^’
10

“ Perhaps you would kindly tell me about it?”
“ Certainly. The family portrait did not lie. Stapleton
was a Baskerville. He was the son of Rodger Basker­
ville, Sir Charles’s youngest brother. Rodger was
probably a criminal, and he fled to South America, 15
where he was said to have died unmarried. He did, in
fact, marry, and had one child - this fellow.

87

“ T his son married Beryl G arcia, one of the beauties
o f Costa R ica. Then, having stolen a large amount of
money, he changed his name to Vandeleur and fled to
England, where he set up a school in \brkshire. A s the
school was not a success, the Vandeleurs changed their
name to Stapleton and went to Devonshire. T he wife
arrived in the character o f Stapleton’s sister.
“ H e had found out that only two lives stood between
him and the Baskerville fortune. H e wanted to use his
wife to charm and attract Sir Charles. Sir Charles told
him the legend o f the hound, and from D r M ortim er he
learned about Sir Charles’s weak heart; and that gave
him the idea o f how to kill him.
“ H e bought the dog in London, brought it down
secretly, and left it in the old hut on the island in the
Grim pen M ire. Then he waited for his chance.
“ But nothing would bring the old gendeman out on
to the moor at night. Several times, Stapleton waited
about with his hound, but without success. Some o f the
local people saw the creature, and that is why the story
o f the hell-hound gained new life. Stapleton wanted his
wife to make Sir Charles come out on to the moor, but
she refused to try.
“ Then S ir Charles grew friendly with Stapleton, ancf
asked him to take some money to M rs L au ra Lyons td
help her. Stapleton told M rs Lyons that he was aii
unmarried man, who would m arry her if she could gel
her divorce. In this way, he gained complete influence
over her. H e then told her to write the letter asking Si#
Charles to be at the gate that evening.
“ Stapleton painted his hound with phosphorus ttj
make it look more terrible, and took it to the moor-gate
where Sir Charles was waiting. Stapleton made thi

hound jump over the moor-gate, and it ran after Sir
Charles, who fled screaming down the Alley until, with
his weak heart, he fell down dead.
“ You see how clever that devil Stapleton was! There
was no way of proving murder. The two women, Mrs
Stapleton and Mrs Laura Lyons, both thought that
perhaps Stapleton had something to do with Sir
Charles’ death; however, both of them were under his
influence, and he had nothing to fear from them.
“ Stapleton then learned from Dr Mortimer that Sir
Henry was returning from Canada to Baskerville Hall.
Stapleton planned to kill Sir Henry in London.
“ His wife seems to have known of his plans. So he
kept her shut up in their hotel room in London while
he, wearing a false beard, followed Dr Mortimer and
Sir Henry. His wife wanted to save Sir Henry. But she
dared not write a letter in her own hand. So she cut out
the words from The Times to make the letter which he
received on his first day in London.
“ Stapleton understood that he might, in the end,
have to use the dog. It was therefore necessary to get
some article of Sir Henry’s clothing, for the dog to
smell before it attacked Sir Henry. The first boot was a
new one and therefore useless. Stapleton had to return
it and get an old boot. From that moment, I knew that
we were dealing with a real hound.
“ When Stapleton saw that I had taken over the case,
he knew that there was no chance for him in London.
So the Stapletons went back to Dartmoor.
“ You may remember that I held the letter close to my
face, to examine it. Well, I noticed that the paper smelt
of flowers. This suggested the presence of a lady, and
already my thoughts began to turn towards the

89

5

10

15

20

25

30

5

10

15

20

25

30

Stapletons. “ So I was sure o f the hound, and I had
already guessed at the criminal, before ever we went to
Devonshire.
“ I came down secretly, with Cartwright, when I was
supposed to be in London. I stayed first at Coom be
Tracey, and later in the hut upon the moor. When I was
watching Stapleton, Cartwright was watching you, so
that I was able to keep all the threads in my hand.
“ Your reports were very useful to me. You told me,
for example, that Stapleton had been a schoolmaster; I
was then able to find out who the man and woman
were.
“ By the time that you discovered me upon the moor,
I knew almost everything about the case; but even after
the death of Selden, I could not prove murder against!
our man. W e had to catch him at the moment of the
crime. That is why we had to use Sir Henry: W e put S ir
Henry in great danger, and he suffered a terrible shockJ
That was my fault. However, we had no \yay of knowing
that the fog would come. And we had no way of|
knowing that the creature which burst from that fog a|
the last moment would look so terrible, and frighten u$j
so that we could not move.
j
“ O n the last day, M rs Stapleton knew that the hound|
was in the outhouse. She understood that her husband!
planned to murder Sir Henry. She grew very angrji
with him, and he with her, and they shouted at each!
other. For the first time, he showed her that he loved!
another woman. In that instant, she turned againsl
him. H e saw that she would go and tell other people o !
his plan, and so he tied her up.”
“ But how could he hope to get the money and returii
to the place as the master o f the H all?”

90

“ I cannot answer you for sure. He was a very clever
man, and he would certainly have found some way to
get the money at least. And now, Watson, what do you
think of going to the opera tonight? Might I trouble
you, then, to be ready in half an hour, and we can stop
for a litde dinner on the way?”